---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Installing IPFS Cluster Services
## What is IPFS Cluster Services?
The `ipfs-cluster-service` is a command line application that runs a full cluster peer.

## How to Install IPFS?
You can download this package [here](https://dist.ipfs.io/#ipfs-cluster-service). The Docs for installing `ipfs-cluster-service` can be found next to the download link or [here](https://cluster.ipfs.io/documentation/reference/service/).

:::note
You will need IPFS running to use IPFS Cluster Services.
:::
 
### Linux Installation
* After you downloaded the above package. Run `tar -xvf ipfs-cluster-service_v1.0.1_linux-amd64.tar.gz`
* Run `cd ipfs-cluster-service`
* Copy the `ipfs-cluster-service` to the bin folder, ex. `cp ipfs-cluster-service /usr/local/bin/`
* You can verify installation by running `ipfs-cluster-service --version`
* Run `ipfs-cluster-service init --consensus crdt` to initialize the cluster in `crdt` mode.
* Run `ipfs-cluster-service daemon` to run ipfs as a daemon.

If all went well, after running this command there will be three different files in `$HOME/.ipfs-cluster` ([link](https://cluster.ipfs.io/documentation/deployment/setup/)):

* `service.json` contains a default peer configuration. Usually, all peers in a Cluster should have exactly the same configuration.
* `identity.json` contains the peer private key and ID. These are unique to each Cluster peer.
* `peerstore` is an empty file used to store the peer addresses of other peers so that this peer knows where to contact them.

:::caution
The new service.json file generated by ipfs-cluster-service init will have a randomly generated secret value in the cluster section. For a Cluster to work, this value should be the same in all cluster peers. This is usually a source of pitfalls since initializing default configurations everywhere results in different random secrets.
:::

For the FragStack Team members check out the discord server, a copy of `service.json` file is provided for our cluster. You will need to update the `peername` in this file and copy it to `$HOME/.ipfs-cluster`.


:::note
You may need to setup port forwarding or ensure UPNP is enabled to get your IPFS Cluster Service communicating with other cluster members.
:::
 